well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
Afghanistan because I got a question
bo can we get an N walks weirdo
breakdown of what's happening in
Afghanistan why is it happening now can
we just give them jets and leave okay so
what is happening in Afghanistan over
the weekend one of the four main groups
that is operating in the country tried
to re-establish itself and show that it
is still viable prior to the dynamics
changing and the dynamics are about to
change because the u.s. is leaving there
are four groups you have the u.s. you
have the Afghan government you have the
Taliban and you have is is is the weaker
of the groups so before the u.s. left
they had to show that they were still
viable they had to defeat the US by
conducting these attacks that's what it
was about all of those people died to
show that they were so relevant what
what's happening behind the scenes the
u.s. is talking directly to the Taliban
without the Afghani government why
because we're selling the Afghani
government out that's what's happening
we can frame it any way we want we can
try to Church it up the reality is we're
selling them out we're hedging our bets
because the reality is we're leaving we
are leaving the Afghani government could
not subdue the Taliban with our help
they're probably not gonna be able to do
it without it which means the Taliban is
probably going to reassert control over
Afghanistan that's that's what's going
on now the problem is that although
President Trump is right not a joke we
do need to leave he's publicly said
repeatedly that he wants to leave that
kind of handicap to the negotiators the
people that are sitting down and talking
with the Taliban right now they have
leverage they've got nothing the Taliban
knows that we're leaving they have no
incentive to work with us so we're gonna
have to give them something if we want
them to if we want them to follow our
preferred route and the preferred route
is probably that the Taliban work with
the Afghani national government to take
out is before they start shooting at
each other so to get that we're probably
going to have to give them supplies I
don't know that that's happening but
that would be my guess
because otherwise they'd have no reason
to do it and that is why the Afghani
government is not privy to the
conversations because they would be
really upset at the idea of us giving
supplies to the Taliban who are
eventually going to fight the Afghani
government now the there gonna be a lot
of people who look at this weekend's
events and they're gonna say well we
need to stay and we need to help
stabilize this country we messed it up
we've got to fix it we're not a
stabilizing force we're not
we've been running counterinsurgency
operations in the country poorly and
that has nothing to do with the guys on
the ground it has to do with the
strategies used they were bad the
airstrikes created a lot of collateral
damage they killed a lot of innocent
people those innocent people had
families they that they of course felt
animosity towards the United States and
by extension the Afghan government
because it is rightly seen as a u.s.
puppet so who do they flock to the
Taliban or is
us staying Hertz doesn't help as far as
the life of the average Afghani staying
just prolong is the violence there is
going to be violence after we leave
there's nothing that we can do to stop
that now we should have thought of that
thought of an exit strategy prior to
going into the country more than a
decade ago the time to figure that out
is over it's going to happen it's going
to happen and more than likely the
Taliban will reassert control there
there's no peace with honor in this one
well we're leaving and we are leaving
behind a mess but we can't clean the
mess up doesn't matter how much we want
to because we are locked into the
mindset of doing it militarily that's
not going to change you know we have
this idea that we have to defeat them by
force it's not true it's not true in
fact it's not even the most effective
route the insurgents almost always win
the guys with the rifles that are 50
years old have brought the most
technologically advanced military to the
table and they beetle I mean there's no
other way to say that they won we we are
withdrawing and we are withdrawing with
a national government that is in peril
and a strengthening Taliban they won now
as far as giving them jets giving the
enema I'm assuming you're talking about
the the national government we can't
because the Taliban is probably going to
Wed so who would control those jets
afterward the Taliban or worse he is
if there was any aid we could give them
that would that would matter it would be
helicopters they don't even have to be
good helicopters because neither of the
other groups have any air to speak of
the helicopters could help change the
course of that war the war that will
come after we leave this incident and as
we watch what unfolds in Afghanistan
after we leave we need to let this kind
of burn into our memory because no
matter what happens we have to maintain
a clear picture when we conduct a
military operation and a big part of
that picture has to be what happens when
it's over when is it over how do we get
out this region of the world this is
where empires go to die and we walked in
there like it was the OK Corral it
didn't work out it didn't work out
objectively it would be better for most
Afghan people if the national government
stayed in place but it's probably not
going to and there's nothing that we can
do realistically to change that anyway
it's just a thought you all have a good
day